# CIS252 SMCD

*Data Structures and Algorithms in C++*
*Spring Semester 2020 Canada College*

Syllabus CIS 252: 

Introduction to Data Structures with C++ 
Spring 2020, Units: 3 Office hours: MTWTh  12:30PM to 1:30PM, 
Build 23 Room 157 Professor Bill Schwarz, schwarzb@smccd.edu 

Note: This is a serious class. Start your work on Monday each week to give yourself time to complete the assignments, and turn them in on time, by Sunday, for full credit. Success is a choice. The purpose of this class is to walk way at the end of this course and carry the course contents in your head so you can use it to benefit your life.Course Description:Description: Design and implementation of larger projects using object-oriented software engineering principles with emphasis on definition and use of data structures including: arrays, stacks, queues, linked lists, trees, hash tables, dictionaries, sets and graphs. Standard methods are used for sorting, searching and analyzing the relative efficiency of algorithms (Big-O notation). This course conforms to the ACM CS2 standards. CIS 250 is recommended. Transfer: CSU, UC.Required Course Textbook:  (Available in book store)Title: Data Structures & Algorithms,  Author: Goodrich, ISBN-13: 978-0470383278 This class has a plethora of resources: This class requires: daily in-class attendance and participation, reading lectures written by the professor, reading the text book, full participation in weekly online discussions, online viewing of videos, in class coding practice, and more.Note: This is NOT a beginning programming course. CIS 252 is the third in a sequence. Look above in the course description and note that CIS 250 is recommended before you take CIS 252. Grading Policy:  A 90’s, B 80’s, C 70’s, D 60’s, F less than 60 (Percentage of total points)(Extra Credit given for STEM Speaker Series)Assignments/Programs       Required:1)  Turn in each lab separately2)  Turn in all work using MS Word, or PDF3)  Write the question and then answer 4)  For programs – Include ALL code copied from your IDE and pasted into MS Word or PDF, along with a mandatory screen print of program result. 5)  Test Matrix20+ Points Each – Assignments Found Online(Lab due Sunday 11:30PM for full credit on week assigned) (No E-Mailed assignments)All work to be submitted online for credit.
Conclusions - Lessons learned6)   

Use required lab formatQuizzes 10+ Points 
Each In-Class Assignments 5+  Points 
Each  Online Discussions 5+  Points 
Each Lecture Notes Summary – Focus Circle3+ Points 
Each Midterm 100 Points Final Exam 100 Points Final Report and Hierarchy- Presentation40 PointsFinal Project - Presentation100 Points Online Nature of this Course:This class is conducted in class and online. All elements of this course are found online using Canada colleges CANVAS online environment.  https://smccd.instructure.com/Computer Programming and Integrated Development Environments (IDE):In this course you will write computer programs as part of many lab assignments.You must down load and use a C++ IDE. An IDE is a program you use to write programs. The two common IDE used are:PC Users – Visual Studios MAC Users - xCodePC Users - Window OS:  Visual Studios  (This what the professor uses in Class )Free downloads:  https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/ MAC Users - Mac OS:  xCodeGo to your Apple Store and download it for free.List of Alternative IDE’s – You can use any C++ IDE of your choice. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_integrated_development_environmentsGood C++ Reference:http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/Indexed C+ Reference:http://www.parashift.com/c++-faq-lite/subject-index.htmlSTL Quick Reference:  http://www.digilife.be/quickreferences/QRC/STL%20Quick%20Reference%201.29.pdfRequired Lab Assignment format:Look online, just below the syllabus link, for the “Required Lab Format Sample File”.  You are REQUIRED to turn all Programs/Assignments online using this format. Nothing else will be accepted. What and When to do the work:Periodically, as this class progresses, modules of class work will be released and made visible.Each module will have lecture notes, a quiz, online discussions, assignments, Video to watch, and more. Be sure you realize that there are firm due dates for the work found in each module. Look at the module to see the dates. Checking the due dates is a choice, make the right choice. To get credit you must submit your work online. No emails accepted.
Lecture Notes:In this course you will find excellent lecture notes I have written for you.  Read them.The first lecture concerns how to study to obtain the most from this and any class. Enjoy the Crow.Online Discussions Grading Rules:o   The discussion are moderated by the PROFESSORo   Discussions are graded. o   Discussions are a learning environment.  Where you can give and receive feedback.o   There are discussion links online for every module, each week.o   Each discussion topic has start and end days – Monday thru Sunday each week. o   Points only awarded if posts written between the start and end dayso   Quality:        Points will be assigned based on the quality of the postso   First Post:    First post due on for each module by Wednesday each week, last by Sunday each weeko   Posts mindlessly copied and pasted from the Internet will be deleted o   For each topic - every week ....Be sure to respond to the questions other have for your posts for more points. Failure to answer a question will result in lost points. o   If you only post on Sunday at the end of the week, you will receive only 1 point. Note: If you are going to quote a website, be sure to use quotes and write the web address,          and write a summary of why you reference the web site.         Failure to give attribution to websites will result in post being deleted.Schedule:  Textbook reading requirements are listed Online weekly.WeekPreTests,TestsAnd QuizzesLecture TopicsOnline Written Lectures and Text bookAssignments1Pretest, QuizConcept Theory – The CrowCS is all about Differentiation ( classes ) and Integration ( Relations between classes )Read Lecture notes and text bookLab 12Pretest, QuizData Validation Abstract Data Type ( ADT )Data Organization and Implementation Big O and Analysis ToolsRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 23Pretest, QuizC++ IDE, OOP and ClassesSDLC and Software Engineering PrinciplesRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 34Pretest, QuizADT Sequence - Lists Array and Pointer ImplementationLinked listsRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 45Pretest, QuizADT Sequence - Lists Linear search and Sorting techniques Read Lecture notes and text bookLab 56Pretest, QuizADT Sequence - Stacks Array and Pointer ImplementationChapter 5  Read Lecture notes and text bookLab 6
7Pretest, Quiz ADT Sequence – Queue Array and Pointer Implementation
Chapter 5 Read Lecture notes and text bookLab 78 Pretest, Quiz ADT Trees ( Hierarchy )Array and Pointer ImplementationChapter 7  Read Lecture notes and text bookLab 89Pretest, QuizMidterm Exam – Part 1 and 2ADT Trees – Heaps ( Min and Max )Array and Pointer ImplementationChapter 8 Read Lecture notes and text bookLab 910Pretest, QuizADT Sequence - Priority Queues Array and Pointer ImplementationRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 1011Pretest, QuizADT Binary TreeADT Binary Search Tree (BTS)Array and Pointer ImplementationAnd RecursionRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 1112Pretest, QuizLecture File Input and Output Read Lecture notesLab 1213Pretest,       QuizFinal Project Instructions ADT Maps ( Key-Value )Array and Pointer ImplementationRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 1314Pretest, QuizADT Hash Tables ( Key-Value )Array ImplementationRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 1415Pretest, QuizADT GraphsChapter 13 Array and Pointer ImplementationRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 1516Pretest, QuizADT Sets and Bags ( Multi-Sets )Chapter 11 Array ImplementationRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 1617Pretest, QuizADT Dictionaries ( Key-Value ) Chapter 9Machine Intelligence – Convolutional Neural NetworksRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 1718Pretest, QuizPresent Final Project Presentation and turn in Final ReportRead Lecture notes and text bookLab 18Final ExamAcademic HonestyPlagiarism and cheating are serious offenses and may be punished by failure on exam, paper or project; failure in course; and or expulsion from the College. For more information refer to the "Academic Dishonesty" policy in the College Catalog.  For this class, it is permissible to assist classmates in general discussions of computing techniques or specific problems on some subject in Access. General advice and interaction are encouraged.  Each person, however, must generally develop his or her own solutions to the assigned projects, assignments, and tasks. In other words, students may not "turn in" another student’s file for 
graded assignments.  

Your work will be checked using the APP “Turn it in” that compares your work to the Internet. The Student Learning Outcomes (SLO’s)The purpose of this course is to teach techniques relevant to program design and selection of data structures for larger programs. (SLO’s)1.  Correctly use recursion to solve a problem with a binary search tree or graph 2.  Determine the Big-O speed of a routine 

3.  Correctly implement an abstract data type (ADT) as a C++ class using an array or linked list 

4.  Correctly determine the relative runtimes of different sort algorithms on arrays of different sizes Cañada College Institutional Learning Outcomes (ILOs) In this course’s week 1 lecture, you will be introduced to the basic characteristic of your mental functioning, the CROW. 
The crow is the physical basis for the need to understand, create and use concepts. Throughout each weeks lectures, you will hone your understanding of thinking and concepts with their resulting hierarchy. Only when you know how to think, then you can be truly efficacious in your creativity, reasoning, 
communication and interaction with those in your community.  

1)  Critical Thinking - Select, evaluate, and use information to investigate a point of view, support a conclusion, or engage in problem solving.

2)  Creativity - Produce, combine, or synthesize ideas in creative ways within or across disciplines.

3)  Communication - Use language to effectively convey an idea or a set of facts, including the accurate use of source material and evidence according to institutional and discipline standards.

4)  Community - Understand and interpret various points of view that emerge from a diverse world of peoples and cultures.

5)  Quantitative Reasoning - Represent complex data in various mathematical forms (e.g., equations, graphs, diagrams, tables, and words) and analyze these data to draw appropriate conclusions.Disabilities - If you have a disability, please let me know so I can make appropriate accommodations for you.Needed for this class:  Personal Computer and connection to the InternetPersonal SuccessToday’s college student has more resources than any other generation of student. Ok... You have the numerous tools and resources – Now, it is entirely your choice to use them. Give yourself permission to be successful, use them.There are many methods to increase the likelihood of success for this class.1)  Prompt start of assignments on Monday each week. Why? To give yourself time to ask and get answers to your questions, so you can complete each week’s assignments.2)  Watch YouTube videos on any subject studied in this course, 24 by 7’3)  Create a study group with your fellow classmates.4)  Post your question online in the weekly discussion topic, where the professor or your fellow classmates can help.5)  Email your professor with specific questions Email your professor with specific questions; always responds back within 24 hours, 7 day a week

6)  Read the text books.

7)  Read the excellent weekly lecture notes the professor has written for you. Pay attention to the weeks concepts, their hierarchy and applications.

8)  To increase the breath of your learning, do the working code examples found in the lecture notes.

9)   Google the Internet for further explanations and examples, 24 hours a day.

10) Meet with you professor during posted office hours (see top of page 1 in syllabus)

11) You are responsible for your life and success. Choose success, utilize all the above resources and turn in your work on-time.Note: If you find an issue with the course material, let me know ASAP so it can be corrected.


